.TH BTRFS\-SPACE\-CALCULATOR 1 "2018" "" "Btrfs Space Calculator"
.nh
.ad l

.SH "NAME"
btrfs\-space\-calculator \- calculate usable and wasted space

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B btrfs\-space\-calculator
[\fIargs\fR]
.IR sizes

.SH DESCRIPTION
The btrfs\-space\-calculator\fR program shows the amount of allocatable space
on btrfs physical and virtual level, and the amount of unallocatable space
resulting from having differently sized block devices added to the filesystem.

In a btrfs filesystem, raw storage is shared by data of different \fItypes\fR
(System, MetaData and Data) and \fIprofiles\fR (e.g. single, DUP, RAID1). Also,
a filesystem can have multiple block devices of different sizes attached.

An example:

    -$ btrfs-space-calculator -m raid1 -d raid1 2TB 500G 1TB
    Target metadata profile: RAID1
    Target data profile: RAID1
    Mixed block groups: False
    Total raw filesystem size: 3.18TiB
    Device sizes:
      Device 1: 1.82TiB
      Device 2: 465.66GiB
      Device 3: 931.32GiB
    Metadata to data ratio: 1:200
    Estimated virtual space to use for metadata: 7.00GiB
    Estimated virtual space to use for data: 1.36TiB
    Total unallocatable raw amount: 465.66GiB
    Unallocatable raw bytes per device:
      Device 1: 465.66GiB
      Device 2: 0.00B
      Device 3: 0.00B

Note that most physical disk vendors specify their sizes in GB or TB for
deceptive marketing reasons, while partitions created in your average partition
table or with lvm2 etc... are usally using MiB, GiB and TiB.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show the built\-in help message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " "\-\-metadata " \fIPROFILE
Metadata profile, values like for data profile.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " "\-\-data " \fIPROFILE
Data profile, raid0, raid1, raid5, raid6, raid10, dup or single.
.TP
.BR \-M ", " "\-\-mixed "
Use mixed block groups (data and metadata profile must match).
.TP
.BR \-r ", " "\-\-ratio " \fIRATIO
Data to metadata ratio, e.g. 200 (the default), which means allocate 0.5% for
metadata. Setting this ratio only makes sense for non-mixed filesystems. When
using this option in combination with -M, it will be ignored.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
This program is an example of what can be done using the python-btrfs library.

Source and documentation on github: https://github.com/knorrie/python-btrfs
